README.md, before:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/66803124/119278987-b8f28480-bbdd-11eb-9ae4-2e6befd1a493.png)

# PM_Estimation_Questions

A starter guide to the estimation questions that a PM is faced with in an interview. 

Estimation questions show the interviewer how effective you will be planning a software engineering project or initiative. 

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/66803124/119279142-9b71ea80-bbde-11eb-84b2-da2c38275b4a.png)
                  .![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/66803124/119279133-8d23ce80-bbde-11eb-8db8-db62038599ab.png)


But don't worry. There is a formula that gives you a solid foundation with any estimation question you'll be faced with in an interview. 
Using Cracking the PM Interview by Gayle Laakmann McDowell and Jackie Bavaro, I'll take you step by step through it all.

# Step 1: Clarify the Question
Ask all the questions you can think of about the uses, communitity, consumer, and resources. 

# Step 2: Catalogue what you know or wish you knew
Parse out the things you know that might affect this outcome. 

# Step 3: Equation
Dont just see this step and run from this article. Every question should have some sort of equation. This shows that you are a grounded 
person that thinks in terms of data and real world problems/solutions. It doesn't have to be complex, even a simple equation can display 
a general aptitude for problem solving. 

# Step 4: Challenge Yourself - Edge Cases and Alternate Sources
Interviewers don't want someone who just doesn't look for, or even worse, actively ignores obstacles instead of facing them head on. Take a minute
to show off your thought process by discussing the limitations on the equation and revising what you wrote. 

Show care with the problem. This isn't just a random scenario, this is a stand in for the interviewers product they have been working on for a year or ten! 
Reassure them that you don't take anything lightly and give each response and step a lot of thought. 

# Step 5: Break It Down
Now that we have the groundwork, its time to start working through the problem. Take the variables above and assign values.

This step involves a lot of ambiguity, something an interviewer is VERY interested in knowing if you can handle. In the PM position, there will be a lot 
of answers you do not have or are tasked in finding out. This step can show the interviewer that not only can you be comfortable in this setting, you can thrive. 

It is extremely likely that you do not know the exact number of dog owners there are in Ireland or working vehicles in Russia. That isn't the point of the excercise. 
How do you move on? How do you break large problems down into smaller, more manageable ones? 

It is helpful to have a few launching points which is why I added a file of estimations for download and also pasted it at the end of this document. It is useful if one 
of these metrics can help you in getting started on a problemm, but I cannot give you every potential estimation you will have to perform so let's get into how to produce 
some on your own. 

You can start by asking your interviewer. A couple questions to narrow down your potential data set could be a good way to get started, but read your interviewer and limit 
this to a couple small questions. Like I said before, the excercise isn't to know the exact numbers, it is to logically work your way throguh it. With that said, use your resources.

Next, don't just throw out random numbers. You also don't want to do all of your thinking internally. Talk out loud through your thought process. Maybe you don't know the population of Ireland, but you likely have an estimate for the number of people in your home state or country and can compare the size to Ireland and come up with a logical estimate. You also are unlikely to know the percentage of people that own a dog, but amongst your family and friends, you nkow 5/20 have a dog. There is a potential data set and now we have a sample population and what percentage could have a dog. 

Now this is a basic example and there are a million ways to work your way through these problems, but the point is, no yelling out random numbers and moving on in the process. Take your time, speak aloud, and explain your reasoning before moving on to the next step. 

# Step 6: Review and State Your Assumptions
Go over the final equation and numerical values and state your final reasoning for landing on these numbers. 

# Step 7: Do the Math
You've gotten this far, time to finish it all up. Use nice round numbers in your estimates to make this step as pain free as possible. 

# Step 8: Sanity Check
Don't stop there. You have your final answer, but call it quits just yet. Go back through your numbers one last time to check yourself while showing the interviewer that you are
detail oriented. Like everything else, talk aloud. Check each number and ball park it. Does this make sense? Why? The more connections you can make to other problems or areas of
specialization.

Commit message:

Added More in Step 6 Explanation

README.md, after:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/66803124/119278987-b8f28480-bbdd-11eb-9ae4-2e6befd1a493.png)

# PM_Estimation_Questions

A starter guide to the estimation questions that a PM is faced with in an interview. 

Estimation questions show the interviewer how effective you will be planning a software engineering project or initiative. 

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/66803124/119279142-9b71ea80-bbde-11eb-84b2-da2c38275b4a.png)
                  .![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/66803124/119279133-8d23ce80-bbde-11eb-8db8-db62038599ab.png)


But don't worry. There is a formula that gives you a solid foundation with any estimation question you'll be faced with in an interview. 

Using Cracking the PM Interview by Gayle Laakmann McDowell and Jackie Bavaro, I'll take you step by step through it all.

# Step 1: Clarify the Question
Ask all the questions you can think of about the uses, communitity, consumer, and resources. 

# Step 2: Catalogue what you know or wish you knew
Parse out the things you know that might affect this outcome. 

# Step 3: Equation
Dont just see this step and run from this article. Every question should have some sort of equation. This shows that you are a grounded 
person that thinks in terms of data and real world problems/solutions. It doesn't have to be complex, even a simple equation can display 
a general aptitude for problem solving. 

# Step 4: Challenge Yourself - Edge Cases and Alternate Sources
Interviewers don't want someone who just doesn't look for, or even worse, actively ignores obstacles instead of facing them head on. Take a minute
to show off your thought process by discussing the limitations on the equation and revising what you wrote. 

Show care with the problem. This isn't just a random scenario, this is a stand in for the interviewers product they have been working on for a year or ten! 
Reassure them that you don't take anything lightly and give each response and step a lot of thought. 

# Step 5: Break It Down
Now that we have the groundwork, its time to start working through the problem. Take the variables above and assign values. This is the most importatnt part of the process. 

This step involves a lot of ambiguity, something an interviewer is VERY interested in knowing if you can handle. In the PM position, there will be a lot 
of answers you do not have or are tasked in finding out. This step can show the interviewer that not only can you be comfortable in this setting, you can thrive. 

It is extremely likely that you do not know the exact number of dog owners there are in Ireland or working vehicles in Russia. That isn't the point of the excercise. 
How do you move on? How do you break large problems down into smaller, more manageable ones? 

It is helpful to have a few launching points which is why I added a file of estimations for download and also pasted it at the end of this document. It is useful if one 
of these metrics can help you in getting started on a problemm, but I cannot give you every potential estimation you will have to perform so let's get into how to produce 
some on your own. 

You can start by asking your interviewer. A couple questions to narrow down your potential data set could be a good way to get started, but read your interviewer and limit 
this to a couple small questions. Like I said before, the excercise isn't to know the exact numbers, it is to logically work your way throguh it. With that said, use your resources.

Next, don't just throw out random numbers. You also don't want to do all of your thinking internally. Talk out loud through your thought process. Maybe you don't know the population of Ireland, but you likely have an estimate for the number of people in your home state or country and can compare the size to Ireland and come up with a logical estimate. You also are unlikely to know the percentage of people that own a dog, but amongst your family and friends, you nkow 5/20 have a dog. There is a potential data set and now we have a sample population and what percentage could have a dog. 

Now this is a basic example and there are a million ways to work your way through these problems, but the point is, no yelling out random numbers and moving on in the process. Take your time, speak aloud, and explain your reasoning before moving on to the next step. 

# Step 6: Review and State Your Assumptions
Go over the final equation and numerical values and state your final reasoning for landing on these numbers. 

You won't feel 100% on every estimate, this is normal. Put yourself in front of other candidates by owning this fact, explaining why you aren't comfortable with this number and what you would do to increase your comfortability with this number in a different settings. 
```
I would start by researching the population of Ireland. I would then see if the licensing bureau requires a permit be obtained in order to own a dog. This would be a great 
first stop to get an idea of the number of dog owners. However, there are likely dog owners that did not register their pet with the bureau. I could look up ticketing 
records for people with unlicensed dogs as a good starting point. Of course not every dog owner without a license is going to be caught and ticketed so I would need to look
into other methods of validation such as Vet records of unique dogs seen in the last year while also keeping in mind the potential for a dog to be seen at more than one 
Vet as a unique dog with in a year and also that not every dog would go in to get their annual shot..... And so on. 
```
Show your interviewer that although you are both in a unique scenario that doesn't allow for certain problem solving alternatives, you can think through these options and would have the thought process needed in order to accureate ultilize various information avenues if on her team. 

# Step 7: Do the Math
You've gotten this far, time to finish it all up. Use nice round numbers in your estimates to make this step as pain free as possible. 

# Step 8: Sanity Check
Don't stop there. You have your final answer, but call it quits just yet. Go back through your numbers one last time to check yourself while showing the interviewer that you are
detail oriented. Like everything else, talk aloud. Check each number and ball park it. Does this make sense? Why? The more connections you can make to other problems or areas of
specialization.
